# Algorithm

## Overview
In this program, I will be creating a 'virtual pet' program. The pet object will have a number of attributes, representing the state of the pet. I will need to create some entity to represent attributes in general, and I will also need to create some specific attributes. I will then create a generic pet class (or interface) which has these specific attributes. Finally I will make at least one subclass of the pet class which will be a specific type of pet, and at least one instance of that class.

## Goals
The goal of this "A Perfect Pet" program is to practice a number of aspects of object-oriented programming, specifically the construction of an abstract data type (or two), inheritance from an abstract class or interface, and data persistence through object serialization.  

For this program, I will be creating two abstract classes, the abstract Pet class and the abstract Attribute class. These two class will not be instantiated, but are meant to be inherited by some other subclasses. These subclasses will have the same attributes and methods as their abstract parent class, and they are either identical to their parent class or implemented differently (polymorphism), which will be overwritten in their respective classes. The goal of this program is to get familiarized with defining abstract clases, as well as to understand how the parent class relates to the child class in a program. 

Firstly, for the two abstract classes that I have created, the Attribute class is created to introduce to the program a list of attributes that a pet will have in this program. Some of the attribute include mood and hunger, which tells the user and the program that every pet will have a certain value of mood and hunger level. Also, the methods created are setters and getters of the pets' mood and hunger levels, methods to increase or decrease the pets' mood level, and also methods to increase or decrease the pets' hunger level. Next, the abstract Pet class is also created to introduce to the program that each pet will have certain similarities, so this is a generalized version of what a pet will have to identify them as a pet and also some methods that a user can do to interact with the pets that they have created. 

Next, from the abstract Attribute class, I will be creating two subclasses that inherit (or extend) from this Attribute class, along with all of the methods and attributes declared in this class. The first class that I will be creating is the Hunger class. This hunger class will handle the level of hunger that a pet possess at a given run time. The attributes defined in this class are integers famished (a hunger level to indicate that the pet is starving and need food), content (a hunger level to show that a pet is satisfied with the food intake amount), and also bloated (a hunger level to show that a pet had more food that it is supposed to have for it to feel satisfied). Also, the methods defined include a setter and a getter for the hunger level, methods to increase and decrease the hunger level, as well as the Mood methods that we have declared in the abstract Attribute class. Since I am inheriting the abstract Attribute class to the Hunger class, I will need to overwrite the abstract methods that I have created in the parent class even though I am not using it in the Hunger class. Aside from that, another class that I will be creating is the Mood class, which is another subclass of the abstract Attribute class. This class will handle the mood level of a pet and determines how the pet feel at a specific run time of a program. The attributes defined are integers sad, moody, neutral, happy, and thrilled. Each of the attribute represents a mood level of the pet. Also, I will be declare and define methods that serve to increase or decrease the Mood level of a pet, a setter and a getter for the mood level, as well as the Hunger methods that I have declared in the parent class even though I am not using them in this class.

After, I also created two different pet subclasses that inherit from the abstract Pet class. The first child class is the Cat class, and the second class is the Dog class. These two classes will perform the same methods and serve the same functionality to this program. The only difference is the type of pet that users can create and instantiate from it. The Dog class will handle all the dog pets created by the user, while the Cat class will handle all the cat pets created by the user. Therefore, the user can then perform some activities with his/her pets (dogs or cats). The attributes that each of the classes possess are their pet names, the type of cat or dog of that specific pet, as well as the gender of the pet. Also, the methods created for these two classes are interative methods that a user can perform with the pet (which is also inherited from the parent abstract class). They are the play, ignore, clean, feed, and the sleep methods. Some additional methods are also declared in these classes, which are the getters and setters for each of their pet names, pet types, and pet genders. 

Finally, I will be creating a Main class that handles the user interface part of the program, which will be creating an interface for a user to do multiple things related to the pet in this perfect pet program. The users will be given the options of creating a pet, choosing an existing pet to interact with, as well as to view their pets' information. Thereforem, these will be the methods defined for this class, as well as the save and load methods to save or load any changes made recently to the pets since serialization is implemented in this program and we have to serialize the data just so everything is up-to-date. Also, some attributes defined in this class include name, gender, and type of the pets defined by the user before loading them in the class of an animal (String), arrays of dogs and cats(Dog and Cat class type), as well as the total and current number of dogs and cats in the program (integers).

## Input
Firstly, the abstract Pet class, abstract Attribute class, Hunger class, Mood class, Cat class, and the Dog class will not prompt or receive any input from the user. These classes are just to handle different aspects and parts of the pet program. Therefore, there is no need for these classes to interact with a user. However, some of the classes will be taking input from the Main class, which is the class that navigates the program to look for the appropriate methods and attributes from all the other classes. For the two abstract parent class, (the Attribute and Pet class), they will not take input from any other classes nor users. In regards to the rest of the classes except Main class, they each have some setter methods that take some parameters from the Main class and assign them to the respective attributes defined in the class. For instance, the Hunger and Mood class have getter methods for the mood and hunger attributes declared in them. Also, the Cat and Dog class have getter methods for the pets' name, type, and gender string variables declared in their respective classes. 

The class that actually takes input from the user is the Main class. This Main class acts as the center of the program that contributes to allow the program interact with the user and execute based on the choices input from the user. In the Main class, there is a main menu method that shows the user a list of things that the user can carry out in this pet program, and the program takes the choices provided by the user and guide the user to utilize this program and interact with their pets. The program will take input from the user whenever needed just so the user has the right to make changes to the program. For example, in the main menu, the program can take input from the user who decides to create a new virtual pet. Then, based on the user's input, the program should be able to take in a few strings to assign them as the name, type, and gender of that new pet. Also, given the choices made by the user, the program will try to fulfill the users' requirements in this perfect virtual pet system.

## Output
Similarly, this perfect pet program will not have values output to the console window (to the user) for all the classes, except for the Main class. However, every child class declared and inherited from a parent class will have an output foe this program. For instance, aside from having the setter methods for Hunger class and Mood class, there is also another type of method called the getter method. This method allows the class to return a value of a specific data type to the part of the program that is calling it. This is considered as the output aspect of the program because the classes contain methods that allows values stored as attributes in a certain class to be accessed by some other methods defined in another class. For the Cat and Dog classes instead, the output used are also getter methods for the name, type, and gender of a specific pet (in String variables) that the program is referring to. 

Finally, the Main class is the class that has actual output data to the console and relate directly with the user using this program. In this class, the user will get a feedback output from the program everytime when he/she enters something, like choices that lead to interaction between them and their pets. The program first outputs a welcome screen to the user to greet the user who is currently using the program. Then, the program will prompt the user to enter his/her choices by outputting useful messages and guide them in completing their purpose of using the program. Also, there is a view dog info and a view cat info method that I have also defined in the Main class just so the user can select to view a list of dogs and cats that are currently existing. Also, at the end of the program, the program will also output a message to thank the user who used my program to interact with their virtual pet before saving all the changes made by the user to a file through serialization. 

## Step
This perfect pet program starts at the Main class, where the program will output a welcome message to the user and prompt the user to enter his/her choice in performing one of the listed or precreated tasks. The user can either create a new pet, choose a specific dog, choose a specific cat, view all the dog pets information, view all the cat pets information, and exit the program. Then, the program will continue running after taking a choice from the user as an input and therefore decide what to do next. The range of options that a user can pick include creating a new dog or cat, viewing a specific existing dog or cat to interact with it, viewing a list of all the existing dogs, as well as cats. If the user chooses to create a new pet, the user will be prompted to provide some additional information about the pet's name, type, and gender; If the user chooses to select a specific pet to interact with, the user can pick the pet he/she wants, and a whole list of activities will be presented to the user that will give rise to opportunities for the user to interact with the pet, like play, ignore, feed, clean, and sleep. Then, based on the activities chosen by the user, the pet will have different hunger and mood level based on the interaction between the user and the pet. For instance, when the user selects the feed method, the pet will have a better mood and a lower hunger level. Then, after every activities or interaction, the program will output the current mood and hunger level of the pet just so the user can keep track of that and ensure that they do not treat the pet badly. If the user chooses to view the dog or the cat information, the program will output a list of dogs that are currently present in the pet array along with their name, type, gender, mood, and hunger level. This will be a comprehensive list of information which will allow the user to keep track of all the pets he/she has, making sure that the user treats all of the pets equally. This list of instructions and activities to be done by the user will be repeated in a loop until the user is satisfied with the virtual pet interaction and select the exit option. Then, the program will save all of the changes made by the user and output a message to thank the user for using this perfect pet program. This program is serializable, so all of the information and data in this program will be saved and loaded at the next run time to ensure that everything is updated. 

Before I started coding this program, a UML diagram and a makefile was created to better understand the relationships between the abstract parent classes and the child classes that are inherited from these parent classes. After having everything set, the program is ran and compiled to check for errors, and a few pet instances were created just to show that the program does what it is intended to do as if it was used by a user. 